.\" changepass 1.4.0preX
.\"
.TH CHANGEPASS 8 "DEC ??, 2015"
.AT 8
.SH NAME
    \fBchangepass\fP \- update an user's password

.SH SYNOPSIS
    changepass
    
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBchangepass\fP is a chpasswd clone, it might be useful on 
platforms that doesn't have such a command like Solaris.
.br
.br
Most GNU/Linux distributions have chpasswd (8), on FreeBSD 
you can use "pw usermod name -h 0" but many commercial Un*ces
doesn't have tool like this.  An alternative is to update the 
user's password in script with \fBusermod\fP
.br
.br
but it's possible to see the encrypted password in the process
list, which is not very secure.
.br
.br
\fBchangepass\fP reads a list of user name and password pairs
from \fBstdin\fP  and updates the users passwords
.br
.br
Each line has format:
.br
username:password
.br    
.SH OPTIONS
.br
 -h,--help              print this help
 -n,--nopam             don't use pam
 -p,--pam               use pam (default)
 -e,--encrypt           password is already encrypted, this option
.br
                        will disable pam
 -m,--md5               use md5 algorithm, this option will
.br
                        disable pam
 -c,--crypt-method      use des|md5|sha256|sha512 crypt method this
.br
                        option will disable pam
 -s,--sha-rounds        number of sha2 rounds
 -v,--verbose           enable verbose output
.br    
.SH USAGE
.br 
cat user_password_pairs | changepass
.br

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Staf Wagemakers <staf@wagemakers.be>
    
.SH COPYRIGHT
.SS Documentation
The documentation for CGIpaf is licensed under the terms of
the FreeBSD Documentation License.
.PP
The FreeBSD Documentation License

Copyright (c) 2001 - 2020 Staf Wagemakers

Redistribution and use in source (plaintext, HTML) and 'compiled' forms
(SGML, HTML, PDF, PostScript, RTF and so forth) with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code (plaintext, HTML) must retain the
above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in compiled form (transformed to other DTDs,
converted to PDF, PostScript, RTF and other formats) must reproduce
the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with
the distribution.

THIS DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. 
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENTATION,
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.SS Software
.br
CGIpaf (the software) is licensed under the terms of the
GNU General Public License version 2 or later.
.PP
Copyright (c) 2002, 2007 Staf Wagemakers.
.PP
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.br
